---
title: Wireless measurements 3
date: 2020-10-12
permalink: /posts/2020/11/paper9/
tags:
  - WebRTC
typora-root-url: ../../middaywords.github.io
---



### Salsify: Low-Latency Network Video Through Tighter Integration Between a Video Codec and a Transport Protocol

* Problem&motivation

  Salsify is a new architecture for real-time Internet video that tightly integrates a video codec and a network trans- port protocol, allowing it to respond quickly to changing network conditions and avoid provoking packet drops and queueing delays. 

* Method

  Salsify optimizes the compressed length and transmission time of each frame, based on a current estimate of the network’s capacity. in contrast, existing systems generally control longer-term metrics like frame rate or bit rate. Salsify’s per-frame optimization strategy relies on a purely functional video codec, which Salsify uses to explore alternative encodings of each frame at different quality levels.

* 



some comments:

* https://bloggeek.me/when-will-zoom-use-webrtc/

  >
  >
  >As for Salsify, it has nothing to do with protocols. As far as I can understand it is just an implementation detail on how to get codecs and transport to work better together, and frankly? Everyone’s been doing that (at least in intent) since the early days of video conferencing – I remember we did similar things at RADVISION 15+ years ago. Can WebRTC be improved? Definitely. But a lot of that improvement relies on the code that ends up implemented inside web browsers.
  >
  >---[Tsahi Levent-Levi](http://bloggeek.me/)

* https://www.callstats.io/blog/2018/07/18/what-do-webrtc-monitoring-and-analytics-experts-think-about-salsify-for-video-delay

  >
  >
  >While we appreciate the breadth of the tests performed, we are somewhat skeptical of these WebRTC video delay values. Given that we monitor and manage the performance of real-time media communication at scale, specifically for WebRTC, we wanted to compare these values to real-world data that we have collected on WebRTC video delay.
  >
  >To give a real-world gauge, we referenced our [WebRTC Metrics Report](https://www.callstats.io/industry-reports/), which gives usage metrics from real-world WebRTC deployments. In it, we establish that 86% of all real-time media sessions have a round-trip time of **less than 240 ms**. This is a drastic departure from the results the Stanford researchers gathered. Because of this, we speculate that the WebRTC video delay values presented for comparison by the Stanford researchers are significantly higher than they would be in a real-world scenario. We plan to reach out to the Salsify team separately to get a better understanding of how their testbed is set up, and how they came to reach these values.
  >
  >Salsify is an interesting development for real-time Internet video system architecture. It combines the video codec and transport protocol, so it is able to change quickly in case of a difference in network conditions, and prevent queueing delays and packet drops. It has potential implications for improving video delay and quality, and we are curious to see who builds on it and how the industry integrates it into products in the future.

* 作者Keith本人的一些Q&A

  https://yahnd.com/theater/r/youtube/Cc_MVldSijA/

  