---
title: notes for Stanford cs244
date: 2020-11-02
permalink: /posts/2020/11/cs244/
tags:
  - course
  - stanford
  - network
typora-root-url: ../../middaywords.github.io
---

## Notes for cs244

course website: http://web.stanford.edu/class/cs244/ 



---

#### Architecture and Principles

paper [The Design Philosophy of the DARPA Internet Protocols](http://web.stanford.edu/class/cs244/papers/DesignPhilosophyDARPA.pdf) 

Internet goals

* Goal 0: An “effective” technique for multiplexed utilization of existing interconnected networks.
  *  Why interconnect existing networks and not design a new overall network from scratch? 
    * An alternative to interconnecting existing networks would have been to design a unified system which incorporated a variety of different transmission media, a multi-media network. While this might have permitted a higher degree of integration, and thus better performance, it was felt that it was necessary to incorporate the then existing network architectures if Internet was to be useful in a practical sense. Further, networks represent administrative boundaries of control, and it was an ambition of this project to come to grips with the problem of integrating a number of separately administrated entities into a common utility
  * Why was packet switching picked for multiplexing? What were the choices? 
    *  An alternative such as circuit switching could have been considered, but the applications being supported, such as remote login, were naturally served by the packet switching paradigm, and the networks which were to be integrated together in this project were packet switching networks. 
* Goal 1: Internet communication must continue despite loss of networks or gateways
  * “Entities should be able to continue communicating without having to reestablish or reset the high level state of their conversation.” 
    * leads to -> “Fate-sharing” model - only lose communication state if the end-host is lost.
  * “The architecture [should] mask completely any transient failure.”
    * leads to -> Stateless packets switches => datagrams
  * What alternative design could there be?
    * In some network architectures, this state is stored in the intermediate packet switching nodes of the network. In this case, to protect the information from loss, it must replicated. Because of the distributed nature of the replication, algorithms to ensure robust replication are themselves difficult to build, and few networks with distributed state information provide any sort of protection against failure
  *  How does the Internet do this(“Fate-sharing” model)? 
    * take this information(State information) and gather it at the endpoint of the net, at the entity which is utilizing the service of the network
  * Would a “dedicated” new network have been more reliable?
    * 没找到。。
* Goal 2: The Internet must support multiple types of communication service.
* Goal 3: The Internet architecture must accommodate a variety of networks
* Goal 4: The Internet architecture must permit distributed management of its resources. 
  *  Does the Internet accomplish this?
    *  The goal of permitting distributed management of the Internet has certainly been met in certain respects. For example, not all of the gateways in the Internet are implemented and managed by the same agency.
* Goal 5: The Internet architecture must be cost effective. 
  *  Is it cost effective?
    *  In certain circumstances, the Internet architecture does not produce as cost effective a utilization of expensive communication resources as a more tailored architecture would. The headers of Internet packets are fairly long (a typical header is 40 bytes), and if short packets are sent, this overhead is apparent. 
* Goal 6: The Internet architecture must permit host attachment with a low level of effort. 
* Goal 7: The resources used in the internet architecture must be accountable.

More 

* Originally TCP+IP were joined, but were later split, why?
  * Why?
    * A second reason for the byte stream( regulate the delivery of bytes, rather than packets，基于bytes进行确认) was to permit the TCP packet to be broken up into smaller packets if necessary in order to fit through a net with a small packet size. But this function was moved to the IP layer when IP was split from TCP, and IP was forced to invent a different method of fragmentation. （TCP 用于执行flow control的功能）

* “It proved more difficult than first hoped to provide multiple types of service without explicit support from the underlying network”
  * Why? What has happened since?
    *  The most serious problem was that networks designed with one particular type of service in mind were not flexible enough to support other services. 
* “The most important change in the Internet…will probably be the development of a new generation of tools for management of resources...”
  * Has this happened?
    * 我觉得是的

Conclusion by Authors

* “Datagram” good for most important goals, but poor for the rest of the goals. 
*  Processing packets in isolation, resource management, accountability all hard. 
* Anticipates flows and “soft-state” for the future.



---

#### CC

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BO0QhaxBRr0



#### switching



#### Buffer sizing



#### Video streaming 

paper [A Buffer-Based Approach to Rate Adaptation: Evidence from a Large Video Streaming Service](http://web.stanford.edu/class/cs244/papers/sigcomm2014-video.pdf) 