---
title: sigcomm2020, learning in situ
date: 2020-09-05
permalink: /posts/2020/09/paper2/
tags:
  - papers

---


### Learning in situ: a randomized experiment in video streaming

Date: 2020.9.17

From Sigcomm 2020



---

Abstract

In the real-world setting, it is difficult for so- phisticated or machine-learned control schemes to outperform a “simple” scheme.

They performed analysis, and found that, 

* the heavy-tailed nature of network, 
* user behavior
* the challenges of emulating diverse Internet paths during training,

present obstacles for learned algorithms in this setting.

Then they develop an ABR(adpative bitrate selection) algorithm that robustly outperformed other schemes by leveraging 

* deployment data
* limit scope of ML, it only make predictions that can be checked soon after.

The system uses supervised learning *in situ*, with data from the real deployment environment, to train a probabilistic predictor of upcoming chunk transmission times.



---

Contribution

* This paper seeks to answer: what does it take to create a learned ABR algorithm that robustly performs well over the wild Internet?
* They find
  * In our real-world setting, sophisticated algorithms based on control theory [46] or reinforcement learning [25] did not outperform simple buffer-based control [18]
  * Statistical margins of error in quantifying algorithm per- formance are considerable. 
  * It is possible to robustly outperform existing schemes by combining classical control with an ML predictor trained *in situ* on real data.



---

Background

Problem: A service wishes to serve a pre-recorded or live video stream to a broad array of clients over the Internet.

* Each client’s connection has a different and unpredictable time- varying performance.

* Because there are many clients, it is not feasible for the service to adjust the encoder configuration in real time to accommodate any one client. The service encodes the video into a handful of alternative compressed versions. Client sessions choose from this limited menu.

*  video is divided into *chunks*, typically 2–6 seconds each. The client can switch between different versions at each chunk boundary. different versions are generally referred to as different

  “bitrates,”

Choosing chunks to fetch

* client fetch chunks, video drain the buffer at steady rate. If the buffer underflows, playback must stall while the client “rebuffers”. 
* The goal of an ABR algorithm is typically framed as choosing the optimal sequence of chunks to fetch or replace 

Adaptive bitrate selection

* “rate-based” approaches that focus on matching the video bitrate to the network throughput
* “buffer-based” algorithms that steer the duration of the playback buffer
* control- theoretic schemes that try to maximize expected QoE over a receding horizon, given the upcoming chunk sizes and a prediction of the future throughput

Model Predictive Control (MPC) is one of control- theoretic schemes. They comprise two modules

* a *throughput predictor*: informs a predictive *model* of what will happen to the buffer occupancy and QoE in the near future
*  predictive *model*: plan a sequence of chunks over a limited horizon 