---
title: Sigcomm20, Understanding Operational 5G 
date: 2020-10-01
permalink: /posts/2020/10/paper5/
tags:
  - lte
  - wifi
---

### Paper notes for Understanding Operational 5G



[Sigcomm2020] Understanding Operational 5G: A First Measurement Study on Its Coverage, Performance and Energy Consumption

Measurement focuses on 4 major perspectives 

- Physical layer signal quality, coverage and hand-off performance
- End-to-end throughput and latency
- Quality of experience of 5G’s niche applications 
- Energy consumption on smartphones

Main results: 

- The 5G link itself can approach Gbps throughput, 
- but legacy TCP leads to surprisingly low capacity utilization (<32%),
- latency remains too high to support tactile applications
- power consumption escalates to 2 − 3× over 4G.
- Analysis suggests wireline paths, upper-layer protocols, computing and radio hardware architecture need to co-evolve with 5G.

some details:

- Coverage: higher frequency -> higher throughput, but severe attenuation/penetration loss/poor coverage.
- End-to-end throughput and delay: 
  - 5G claims to support Gbps and sub-10 ms latency. but practical performance faces many problems
    - Limited capacity of wire-line paths
    - poor interaction across layers within network stack 
    - link quality disruptions due to frequent hand-off across cells
  - To understand it, they measure the end-to-end performance of mainstream transport layer protocols, along with a breakdown of network latency. They identifies the bottlenecks and sources of anomalies that prevent 5G from delivering its expected performance.
    - ...
- Application performance
  - application quality of experience (QoE) also depends on other factors besides network performance:
    - the processing capabilities of end-user devices. 
  - investigate the inter-play between the communica- tion and computing factors: 
- smartphone energy consumption
  - They develop an energy profiling tool - pwrStrip, to quantitatively analyze the power consumption on a typical 5G smartphone

Insights summary:

* though the current 5G is densely deployed, 
  * there still exists many coverage holes. 
    * limited Field-Of-View(FoV)
    * Limited distance(230m in 5G vs 520m in 4G, for stable connection)
  * 5G channel suffers a sharp degradation when transitioning indoor, with a drop of 50.59%(in comparison to 20.38%)
    * due to higher frequency 5G signals, suffer more penetration loss.
  * We find the cross-cell hand-off takes around 108.4ms, 3.6× longer compared to 4G, mainly due to the use of the NSA architecture.
    * 5G data plane but 4G control plane.
    * the smartphone cannot directly switch to any 5G neighboring cells, but has to release its current 5G NR resource and roll back to the current 4G eNB.  Then it performs a HO between the current 4G eNB and the target 4G eNB. and finally requests 5G NR resources on the target master 4G eNB
* We find that the de facto loss/delay based transport protocols (e.g., Cubic, Vegas) behave abnormally when running over 5G
  * a bandwidth utilization below 32%
  * legacy **core Internet routers** tend to cause excessive packet drops under 5G workloads
    * identify and verify two solutions (proper buffer sizing, and adopting BBR-like probing based transport protocols.)
  * Throughput during Handoff: hand-off latency is larger in 5G, causing 5G-4G and 5G-5G hand-off suffer significant throughput degradation(83.04% and 73.15%, respectively)
  * for network latency, the current 5G NR reduces “in air” latency by only less than 1ms, while the flatten core network architecture reduces latency by 20ms.
    * The RAN(radio access network) latency reduction (hop 1) is negligible: 2.19±0.36ms (5G) vs. 2.6±0.24ms (4G)
    * The delay reduction mainly comes from the second hop (i.e., from the gNB to cellular core network), attributes to the flatten architecture of 5G.
    * However, the end-to-end latency remains similar(20ms less on average) to 4G LTE, as it is dominated by the wire-line paths. -> legacy Internet structure needs to be updated
* Application performance
  * 5G offers negligible benefits to mobile Web loading
  * For 4K panoramic video telephony, 5G can improve video quality and smoothness owing to its high throughput, However, the codec/processing latency tends to outweigh transmission time by 10×, i.e., the computing modules become the bottleneck in such demanding 5G use cases.
    * the frame latnency = 950ms. 66ms for transmission delay, but 650ms for local processing 
    * 其实我觉得手机也不需要很高清晰度，毕竟屏幕尺寸有限，但时延还是很重要的
* Energy comsumption
  * 5G module results in alarmingly high power consumption, 2−3× over 4G and 1.8× over screen display which used to dominate the 4G phone power budget
  * Such high power consumption is intrinsic to the 5G radio hardware and DRX state machine
  * possible solutions
    * an oracle sleep scheduling mechanism
    * offloads certain traffic to 4G

Contributions

* Quantitative characterization of 5G’s coverage, offers hints for optimizing deployment and hand-off/mobility man- agement.
*  Identifying an alarming TCP anomaly that severely underutilizes 5G capacity
* A breakdown analysis of the 5G end-to-end latency
* released our dataset and measurement tools :https://github.com/piaobozaizai/5G_measurement

Notes:

* What is NSA?
  * **non-standalone architecture**(NSA): it allows them to leverage their existing network investments in transport and mobile core —rather than deploy a completely new end to end 5G network.
  * description in paper:
    *  a 5G gNB is co-located with an existing 4G base station (eNB).
    * Under NSA, the 5G radio only operates within the data plane (or user plane), and relies on the legacy 4G LTE for control plane operations
* What is  cross-cell hand-off ?
  * Handoff is the process of changing the channel (frequency, time slot, spreading code, or combination of them) when a mobile station (MS) crosses the boundary of the serving cell and enters a neighboring cell.



